.\" Copyright 1989 - 1990, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: su.1 6 2005-03-20 15:34:28Z bubulle $
.\"
.TH SU 1
.SH NAME
su \- Change user ID or become super-user
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsu\fP [\fBOPTS\fR] [\fB-\fP] [\fBusername\fP [\fBARGS\fP]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B su
is used to become another user during a login session.
Invoked without a username, \fBsu\fR defaults to becoming
the super user.
The optional argument \fB\-\fR may be used to provide an
environment similiar to what the user would expect had
the user logged in directly.
.PP
The user will be prompted for a password, if appropriate.  Invalid
passwords will produce an error message.  All attempts, both valid and
invalid, are logged to detect abuses of the system.
.PP
An optional command can be executed. This is done by the shell specified
in \fI/etc/passwd\fR for the target user unless the \fB-s\fR or \fB-m\fR
options are used.  Any arguments supplied after the \fBusername\fR will be
passed to the invoked shell (shell must support the -c command line
option in order for a command to be passed to it).
.PP
Unless the \fB-m\fR or \fB-p\fR options are used, the current environment is
passed to the new shell with alterations.  The value of \fB$PATH\fR is
reset to \fB/bin:/usr/bin\fR for normal users, or
\fB/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin\fR for the super user.  This may be
changed with the \fBENV_PATH\fR and \fBENV_SUPATH\fR definitions in
\fI/etc/login.defs\fR. 
\fB$IFS\fP, if is set, is reset to contain space, tab, and newline.
\fB$USER\fP is set to the name of the target user, 
\fB$HOME\fP is set to the home directory of the target user, and
\fB$SHELL\fP is set to the shell of the target user.
When using the \fB-m\fR or \fB-p\fR options, the
user's environment is not changed.
.PP
A subsystem login is indicated by the presense of a "*" as the first
character of the login shell. The given home directory will be used as
the root of a new filesystem which the user is actually logged into.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-\fR
make this a login shell
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-commmand\fR=\fI<command>\fR
pass \fIcommand\fR to the invoked shell using its \fB-c\fR option
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-preserve\-environment\fR
do not reset environment variables, and keep the same shell
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-shell\fR=\fI<shell>\fR
use \fIshell\fR instead of the default in /etc/passwd
.PP
.SH NOTES
The \fB-m\fR, \fB-p\fR and \fB-s\fR options are restricted by the target
user's shell being listed in \fB/etc/shells\fR. If it's not listed, then
it's assumed to be a restricted account, a normal su is performed, and
those options are ignored silently.
.PP
A subsystem login is indicated by the presense of a "*" as the first
character of the login shell. The given home directory will be used as
the root of a new filesystem which the user is actually logged into.
.PP
Much of the behavior of this command can be altered via its pam
configuration \- see
.BR pam (7)
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This version of \fBsu\fR has many compilation options, only some of which
may be in use at any particular site.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd \- user account information
.br
/etc/shadow \- encrypted passwords and age information
.br
/etc/shells \- valid user shells
.br
$HOME/.profile \- initialization script for default shell
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR login.defs (5),
.BR shells (5), 
.BR pam (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jfh@austin.ibm.com)
